AI-powered tool for trend analysis and nutritional ingredient predictions in Fine Bakery

IMCD is a company that specializes in the distribution and marketing of specialty chemicals
and food ingredients. They work with manufacturers to bring their products to market and
provide technical support and other services to help customers use the products effectively.
They operate in over 40 countries and have a wide range of customers in various industries
such as food, personal care, and pharmaceuticals. IMCD's bakery department is a specific
division within the company that focuses on providing ingredients and solutions to
customers in the bakery industry.

The demand for healthier and more sustainable products is on the rise. The marketing
database Innova contains information on claims related to health and sustainability, as well
as details on flavour, preparation methods, ingredients, nutrition, macronutrient
breakdowns (such as fat, protein, and carbohydrates), sugar content, and pricing. An export
for fine bakery products will be made available. The data can be enriched by public available
recipe data and or flavour / molecule data.

By utilizing natural language processing, graph-based AI, and embedding techniques, it is
possible to create a sophisticated tool that can answer complex questions about trends in
healthy and sustainable food products. The tool would be able to analyse the relationships
and patterns in the data represented in the graph, answering questions such as "What could
be a sustainable replacement for egg (ingredients and or additives /e-numbers) in cake
without compromising texture, flavour, and taste experience?" or "What are the most
common ingredients in gluten-free bread claims?" Additionally, embeddings can be used to
cluster similar ingredients or recipes, identify similar food structures in the graph, and
identify patterns in the relationships between different claims and ingredients, ultimately
leading to better decision making. Lastly the preprocessed and analyzed data can be used as
input features to train a predictive model to make predictions about future trends.

The objective of the project is to build an AI-powered tool for trend analysis and ingredient
predictions. The project will utilize established technology developed by the KCBBE. Initially,
the tool will output trends and/or replacements in the form of an Excel file, along with data
that supports these predictions. If the output proves to be effective, a software application
may be developed.

Keywords: Graph networks, natural language processing, embedding, machine learning, AI,
food components, chemical structures, trend analysis

Guidance:
The project is expertly guided by Fenna Feenstra of the KCBBE, who will provide data
science guidance. Regular progress meetings with the students and Fenna Feenstra are
scheduled to ensure that the project is progressing efficiently and any obstacles are
addressed promptly. IMCD will be updated throughout the project's duration. The project
begins with a kickoff meeting in Mechelen with Thomas Vervaeren, the Segment Expert in
Bakery, Food & Nutrition France serving as the Field Expert.

Timeline
The project will start on March 13th and conclude by the end of June. There is a possibility
for the project to continue as an internship initiative

Specific study case
Egg replacement is an emerging trend driven by various factors, including ethical choices
(veganism), well-being, product availability, and affordability. This trend affects a range of
products, from cakes to biscuits, and can be achieved through various ways.
Research questions:
-   In which applications (cake/biscuits/others) is egg replacements used
-   What is the trend over the past 2-5 years in egg replacement
-   What are the most common ingredients and alternatives per application type
-   What is the predicted recipe (ingredients, components, process steps) for egg
    replacement /how to achieve the egg replacement

Possible trend analysis questions:
-   Understanding of the most dynamic markets and the most dynamic marketing
    positioning and claims.
-   Analysis of the ingredients used, specifically the ingredients used to obtain specific
    claims (excluding irrelevant ingredients such as flour or salt, milk, fat, etc.).
-   Identification of the most innovative ingredients for claims and nutritional profile
    improvement.
-   Predictions of the trends and dynamic markets for the next 2 to 5 years, the
    ingredients expected to grow, and the ingredients expected to decline
-   Evaluation of the cost impact of claims and ingredients (how much extra the
    consumer is willing to pay).